src/content/posts/post-1.mdx, before:

---
id: "test-article-test"
title: "Crafting cool code blocks"
description: "Learn how to style code blocks from Markdown and MDX with Astro, Shiki, Remark and Rehype."
date: 2024-06-10
image: "./img.jpg"
imageAlt: "A dog wearing a pair of shoes."
tags: ["astro", "shiki", "markdown", "parsing", "css"]
---

# Project Title: Dynamic Heading Selector

```ts title="line-markers.js" del={2} ins={3-4} {6}
console.log("Not highlighted");
console.log("Highlighted");
console.log("Not highlighted");
```

## 1 23123123123123

## 123

## 3123

lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum lorem ipsum  
lorem ipsum lorem ipsum  
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum  
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum
lorem ipsumlorem ipsumlorem ipsum

Commit message:

Prevent TOC from running its script when hidden, Add ui changes

src/content/posts/post-1.mdx, after:

---
id: "test-article-test"
title: "Crafting cool code blocks"
description: "Learn how to style code blocks from Markdown and MDX with Astro, Shiki, Remark and Rehype."
date: 2024-06-10
image: "./img.jpg"
imageAlt: "A dog wearing a pair of shoes."
tags: ["astro", "shiki", "markdown", "parsing", "css"]
---

## Nuxt.js

`Nuxt.js` is a powerful framework built on top of `Vue.js` that simplifies the development of server-rendered applications. It provides a robust architecture for building universal applications, which means that the same code can run on both the client and the server. This capability enhances performance and improves SEO, as search engines can easily crawl the pre-rendered pages.

\\

One of the standout features of `Nuxt` is its file-based routing system. By simply creating a new `.vue` file in the `pages` directory, developers can automatically generate routes without the need for additional configuration. For example, if you create a file named `about.vue` in the `pages` folder, it will automatically be accessible at `/about`.

\\

Another significant aspect of `Nuxt` is its support for `Vuex`, which is a state management pattern and library for `Vue.js` applications. `Nuxt` integrates `Vuex` seamlessly, allowing developers to manage the application state efficiently. This is particularly useful in larger applications where managing state can become complex.

\\

To illustrate how easy it is to get started with `Nuxt`, here’s a simple example of creating a basic `Nuxt` application:

```bash
npx create-nuxt-app my-nuxt-app
```

This command sets up a new `Nuxt` project with a default configuration. You can then navigate into the project directory and run the development server:

```bash
cd my-nuxt-app
npm run dev
```

\\

Once the server is running, you can access your application at `http://localhost:3000`. The default template includes a few pages and components, showcasing how `Nuxt` organizes files and directories.

\\

In conclusion, `Nuxt.js` offers a streamlined approach to building applications with `Vue.js`, enhancing both performance and developer experience. Its automatic routing, server-side rendering, and integration with `Vuex` make it a compelling choice for developers looking to create modern web applications.
